
/*                                                                EXPERIMENT NO 1:- LINUX COMMANDS 
                                                                   
                                                                       NAME:-
                                                                       ROLL NO:-
                                                                       Batch :-03
                   


                                                                                                                    

*/


1. pwd command

Use the pwd command to find the path of your current working directory.

2. cd command

To navigate through the Linux files and directories, use the cd command.

3.  ls command

The ls command lists files and directories within a system.

4.  cat command

Concatenate, or cat, is one of the most frequently used Linux commands. It lists, combines, and writes file content to the standard output.

5. cp command

Use the cp command to copy files or directories and their content.

6. mv command

The primary use of the mv command is to move and rename files and directories. Additionally, it doesn’t produce an output upon execution.

7. mkdir command

Use the mkdir command to create one or multiple directories at once and set permissions for each of them. 

8. rmdir command

To permanently delete an empty directory, use the rmdir command.

9.  rm command

The rm command is used to delete files within a directory. Make sure that the user performing this command has write permissions.

10.  touch command

The touch command allows you to create an empty file or generate and modify a timestamp in the Linux command line.

11.  locate command

The locate command can find a file in the database system.

12. find command

Use the find command to search for files within a specific directory and perform subsequent operations. 

13. grep command

Another basic Linux command on the list is grep or global regular expression print. It lets you find a word by searching through all the texts in a specific file.

14. df command

Use the df command to report the system’s disk space usage, shown in percentage and kilobyte (KB).

15. du command

If you want to check how much space a file or a directory takes up, use the du command.

16.  head command

The head command allows you to view the first ten lines of a text. Adding an option lets you change the number of lines shown.

17. tail command

The tail command displays the last ten lines of a file. It allows users to check whether a file has new data or to read error messages.

18.  diff command

Short for difference, the diff command compares two contents of a file line by line. After analyzing them, it will display the parts that do not match.

19. tar command

The tar command archives multiple files into a TAR file – a common Linux format similar to ZIP, with optional compression.

20. chmod command

chmod is a common command that modifies a file or directory’s read, write, and execute permissions.

21.  chown command

The chown command lets you change the ownership of a file, directory, or symbolic link to a specified username.

22. jobs command

A job is a process that the shell starts. The jobs command will display all the running processes along with their statuses. 

23.  kill command

Use the kill command to terminate an unresponsive program manually. It will signal misbehaving applications and instruct them to close their processes.

24. ping command

The ping command is one of the most used basic Linux commands for checking whether a network or a server is reachable.

25. wget command

The Linux command line lets you download files from the internet using the wget command. It works in the background without hindering other running processes.

26. uname command

The uname or unix name command will print detailed information about your Linux system and hardware. 

27. top command

The top command in Linux Terminal will display all the running processes and a dynamic real-time view of the current system.

28. history command

With history, the system will list up to 500 previously executed commands, allowing you to reuse them without re-entering.

29. man command

The man command provides a user manual of any commands or utilities you can run in Terminal, including the name, description, and options.

30. echo command

The echo command is a built-in utility that displays a line of text or string using the standard output. 

31. zip, unzip commands

Use the zip command to compress your files into a ZIP file, a universal format commonly used on Linux. It can automatically choose the best compression ratio.
The zip command is also useful for archiving files and directories and reducing disk usage.

32. hostname command

Run the hostname command to know the system’s hostname. You can execute it with or without an option.

33. useradd, userdel commands

 useradd is used to create a new account, while the passwd command allows you to add a password Only those with root privileges or sudo can run the useradd command.

34. apt-get command

apt-get is a command line tool for handling Advanced Package Tool (APT) libraries in Linux. 

35. su command

The switch user or su command allows you to run a program as a different user. It changes the administrative account in the current log-in session.

36. ps command

The process status or ps command produces a snapshot of all running processes in your system. 

37. exit Command

The exit command does exactly what its name suggests: With it, you can end a shell session and, in most cases, automatically close the terminal you’re using:

38. sudo Command

This command stands for “superuser do,” and it lets you act as a superuser or root user while you’re running a specific command.

39. shutdown Command

As you may guess, the shutdown command lets you power off your machine. 

40. top Command

htop is an interactive process viewer that lets you manage your machine’s resources directly from the terminal. 
